As it is my first day of #30DaysOfCyberSecurity Challenge 
I started to learn about Multi Factor authentication,
    --How is MFA used
    --Why is MFA Important
    --How Does MFA work?
    --What's the Difference between MFA and Two-Factor authentication (2FA)?
    --Types of Multi-Factor authentication
    --Other Types of Multi-Factor authentication
    --MFA Examples.

1> What Is MFA?
    So after visiting many websites and watching many videos , I got to know
    MFA(Multi-Factor authentication) is a authentication method that requires
    the user to provide two or more verification factors to gain access to a 
    resource such as an application, online account . Instead od directly giving
    access by username and password is very harmfull,MFA requires one or more 
    additional verification factors, which decreases the chances of getting hacked.

2> Why is MFA Important?
    The main benefit of MFA is it will enhance your organization's security by
    requiring your users to identify themselves by more than a username and password.
    unlike Just authenticating using Username and password is a downfall in this 
    world, Username and password can be easily cracked by Bruteforcing or using any 3rd party
    apps.

3> How Does MFA work?
    MFA works by requiring additional verification or authentication.
    The most common way is by generating OTP(One-Time-password) of 4-8 digits.
    but having only 2 authentication factor can even be harmfull,
    as even OTPS can be bruteforced.With OTPs a new code is generated periodically
    or each time an authentication request is submitted.

4> What's the Difference between MFA and Two-Factor authentication (2FA)?
    MFA is often used interchangeably with two-factor authentication (2FA). 2FA is basically 
    a subset of MFA since 2FA restricts the number of factors that are required to only two factors,
    while MFA can be two or more.     

5> Types of Multi-Factor authentication
    Most MFA authentication methodology is based on one of three types of additional information:
     -Things You Know(knowledge), Such as a password or PIN 
     -Things you have (possession), such as a badge or smartphone
     -Things you are (inherence), such as a biometric like fingerprints or voice recognition

6> Other Types of Multi-Factor authentication
    As MFA integrates machine learning and artificial intelligence (AI),
    authentication methods become more effective 
    -Location-based MFA usually looks at a user’s IP address and, if possible, 
     their geo location. This information can be used to simply block a user’s
     access if their location information does not match what is specified on a
     whitelist or it might be used as an additional form of authentication in addition
     to other factors such as a password or OTP to confirm that user’s identity. 

7> MFA Examples
    Examples of Multi-Factor Authentication include using a combination of these elements to authenticate:

    -Knowledge
        Answers to personal security questions
        Password
        OTPs (Can be both Knowledge and Possession - You know the OTP and you have to have something
        in your Possession to get it like your phone)
    -Possession
        OTPs generated by smartphone apps
        OTPs sent via text or email
        Access badges, USB devices, Smart Cards or security keys
        Software tokens and certificates
    -Inherence
        Fingerprints, facial recognition, voice, retina or iris scanning or other Biometrics
        Behavioral analysis




So Thats It For Today (:        